[Kommander 2.2] Integrate Microservices using istio (#4443)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.2/networking/use-istio/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Use Istio
title: Use Istio
menuWeight: 24
excerpt: Learn how to integrate microservices managed by Istio into a DKP cluster
beta: false
experimental: true
---

Istio helps you manage cloud-based deployments by providing an open-source service mesh to connect, secure, control, and observe microservices.

This topic describes how to expose an application running on the DKP cluster using the LoadBalancer (layer-4) service type.

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Usage and installation of Istio on DKP is currently a self-service feature.</p>

## Before you begin
Before you begin, verify the following:

- You must have access to a Linux, macOS, or Windows computer with a supported operating system version.

- You must have a properly deployed and running cluster.

> 
> - You must have `cert-manager` enabled and deployed through your `cluster.yaml` configuration.

Reviewer: cert-manager is a pre-requisite for installing Kommander so no need to mention it here.   

```suggestion
```

## Deploy Istio using DKP

> Review the [list of available applications](../../workspaces/applications/platform-applications#workspace-platform-applications) that can be enabled to deploy to your attached cluster.

Reviewer: Since this page is specifically about enabling the Istio platform-application, do we really need to refer the user to this other page where it is already listed?      I see later in the procedure we need to know the exact version, so perhaps we can improve this like this?
```suggestion
Review the [list of available applications](../../workspaces/applications/platform-applications#workspace-platform-applications) to obtain the current 'APP NAME' for the Istio application, as you will need this name later in this procedure.
```

> 1.  Enable a supported application to deploy to [your existing attached cluster](../../clusters/attach-cluster/) with an `AppDeployment` resource.

Reviewer: Instead of the generic 'a supported application', since this is a page about installing istio, we should mention that here.

```suggestion
1.  Enable the deployment of Istio to [your existing attached cluster](../../clusters/attach-cluster/) by creating an `AppDeployment` resource.
```

## Download the Istio command line utility

1. Store a local environment variable containing the current Istio version running in your cluster:

    ```bash
    export KONVOY_ISTIO_VERSION="$(kubectl get clusteraddons istio -o go-template='{{ .spec.chartReference.version }}')"
    ```

2. Pull a copy of the corresponding Istio command line to your system:

    ```bash
    curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | ISTIO_VERSION=${KONVOY_ISTIO_VERSION} sh -
    ```

3. Change to the Istio directory and set your PATH environment variable by running the following commands:

    ```bash
    cd istio*
    export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
    ```

4. You should now be able to run the following `istioctl` command and view the subsequent output:

    ```bash
    istioctl version
    ```
    
    ```sh
    client version: <your istio version here>
    control plane version: <your istio version here>
    data plane version: <your istio version here> (1 proxies)
    ```

## Deploy a sample application on Istio

The Istio BookInfo sample application is composed of four separate microservices that demonstrate various Istio features.

> 1. Deploy the sample `bookinfo` application on the Kubernetes cluster by running the following commands:

Reviewer 2: these commands probably need to be run on the attached/managed clusters where istio got deployed right? might want to specify or add a line about using the correct kubeconfig context

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml)
    kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml
    ```

1. Get the URL of the load balancer created on AWS for this service by running the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system
    ```

    The command displays output similar to the following:

>     ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

---
layout: layout.pug

> navigationTitle: Integrate microservices using Istio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
navigationTitle: Use Istio
```

> title: Integrate microservices using Istio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Use Istio
```

menuWeight: 24
excerpt: Learn how to integrate microservices managed by Istio into a DKP cluster
beta: false
experimental: true
enterprise: false
---

> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD004 MD007 MD025 MD030 -->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Istio helps you manage cloud-based deployments by providing an open-source service mesh to connect, secure, control, and observe microservices.

> This tutorial demonstrates how to expose an application running on the DKP cluster using the LoadBalancer (layer-4) service type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to expose an application running on the DKP cluster using the LoadBalancer (layer-4) service type.
```

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Usage and installation of Istio on DKP is currently a self-service feature.</p>

## Before you begin

> Before starting this tutorial, you should verify the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you begin, verify the following:
```

- You must have access to a Linux, macOS, or Windows computer with a supported operating system version.

> - You must have a properly deployed and running cluster. For information about deploying Kubernetes with default settings, see the [Quick start][quickstart].

Reviewer 3: Quickstart does not exist anymore so this link is broken.

Author: Removed second sentence.

> - You must have `cert-manager` enabled and deployed through your `cluster.yaml` addon configuration.

Reviewer 3: We don't call them addons anymore.

## Deploy Istio using DKP

> Review the [list of available applications](../../platform-applications#workspace-platform-applications) that can be enabled to deploy to your attached cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Review the [list of available applications](../../workspaces/applications/platform-applications#workspace-platform-applications) that can be enabled to deploy to your attached cluster.
```

> 1.  Enable a supported application to deploy to [your existing attached cluster](../../../../clusters/attach-cluster/) with an `AppDeployment` resource.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1.  Enable a supported application to deploy to [your existing attached cluster](../../clusters/attach-cluster/) with an `AppDeployment` resource.
```

    kind: AppDeployment
    metadata:
      name: istio
      namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      appRef:
        name: istio-1.11.6
        kind: ClusterApp
    EOF
    ```

1.  Create the resource in the workspace you just created, which instructs Kommander to deploy the `AppDeployment` to the `KommanderCluster`s in the same workspace.

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>The <code>appRef.name</code> must match the app <code>name</code> from the list of available applications.</p>

## Download the Istio command line utility

1. Store a local environment variable containing the current Istio version running in your cluster:

    ```bash
    export KONVOY_ISTIO_VERSION="$(kubectl get clusteraddons istio -o go-template='{{ .spec.chartReference.version }}')"
    ```

2. Pull a copy of the corresponding Istio command line to your system:

    ```bash
    curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | ISTIO_VERSION=${KONVOY_ISTIO_VERSION} sh -
    ```

3. Change to the Istio directory and set your PATH environment variable by running the following commands:

    ```bash
    cd istio*
    export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
    ```

> 4. You should now be able to run the following commands and see output like this:

Reviewer 4: Are we missing the output? Or is the following a mix of command and output? In that case, maybe we could separate?

Reviewer: Yes. Right now this example is a mix, it should be broken up into a bash section with just the 'istioctl version' line (no `$`!) and then a 'sh' section for the stuff after.

    ```bash
    NAME                   TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP                                                               PORT(S)                                                                                                                                      AGE
    istio-ingressgateway   LoadBalancer   10.0.29.241   a682d13086ccf11e982140acb7ee21b7-2083182676.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com   15020:30380/TCP,80:31380/TCP,443:31390/TCP,31400:31400/TCP,15029:30756/TCP,15030:31420/TCP,15031:31948/TCP,15032:32061/TCP,15443:31232/TCP   110s
    ```

1. Open a web browser and navigate to the external IP address for the load balancer to access the application.

    For example, the external IP address in the sample output is `a682d13086ccf11e982140acb7ee21b7-2083182676.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com`, enabling you to access the application using the following URL: `http://a682d13086ccf11e982140acb7ee21b7-2083182676.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com/productpage`

1. Follow the steps in the Istio [BookInfo Application][istiobook] documentation to understand the different Istio features.

[istiobook]:https://istio.io/docs/examples/bookinfo/

> [quickstart]:../../quick-start/

Reviewer 3: I think both of these links won't work anymore bc they're referencing stuff we had in 1.8, not in 2.x.

> [quickstart]:../../quick-start/

Reviewer: Quickstart anchor isn't mentioned anywhere on this page so I think you can just delete it. 
```suggestion
```
